Strings : are a collection of characters
          Memory is allocated in the heap
         String is a predefined reference type
         Strings have fixed size 
         Strings are immutable
         Strings memory cannot be changed dynamically

   string s= "abc"
   

 StringBuilder - are similar to strings except for that they are mutable

 Structures : are value types, where as classes are reference types
             it is a user defined value type
             is used when we want to store different data types as a single unit


 Enumerations : Enumerations are a set/collection of named constants
                it is a user defined value type
                enum is the keyword used to declare enumeration type
                the default type of enumeration list elements is int
                is used when we want to store a list of values that generally correspond to a particular type

OO Programming : is an architectural design of creating applications

WYSIWYG 
  - Encapsulation : Unit of Info.
  - Abstraction: Give Required data alone, hide not required data 
  - Polymorphism : Object exhibiting many forms
                    overloading
                    overriding
  - Inheritance  : Single
                   Multilevel

Classes : are type definitions which can contain field, methods, properties, indexers etc.

 Objects : are instances of the class
           they have state and behaviour
           

  fields contain data
  methods operate on the data

Constructors : are special functions of the class
               have the same name as that of the class
               may be overloaded (parameterized constructors)
               do not have any return type
               are either public or internal
               are meant for initializing the fields   
               they are called at the time of object creation
               framework provides a default constructor, if the class does not have any

Destructors : is also a special function of a class
              meant to release the memory
              has the same name as that of the class prefixed with a '~'
              has no return type
              cannot be overloaded (only one per class)
              cannot explicitly call a destructor.

Constants vs readonly vs static

Read only - variables are declared using 'readonly' keyword
            values of readonly variables cannot be modified after it is initialized
            values of readonly variables can be initialized either at the time of declaration or at the time of construction 
            the behaviour of the readonly variables is similar to that of non-static variable, meaning it maintains a separate copy for each object, but the difference is non-static variables can be modified, but readonly cannot
            both readonly and non-static need object to access them
      


Constants : a variable whose value is fixed.
            is like a static variable, meaning they are not available for each object but instead
                 available for the entire class
            both constant and static do need any object to access
            static variables can be modified, but constants cannot
            has to be initialized at the time of declaration itself


Access Specifiers / modifiers are the capabilities that we can build into the class (what is possible, and what is not)
-Defines the scope and visibility of a class member.
Encapsulation is defined as the process of enclosing one or more items within a physical or logical structure

Note :All classes are internal by default
----
     All members of the class are private by default
     
C# supports the below access specifiers
  1. Private : -are members that are accessible only in the class where they are declared
               -nowhere else
              - All class members are private by default
  2. Public :  - are accessible within the current assembly or outside the assembly.
               - are accessible with or without derivation (child class)
               - We need an object of the class whose public members we would like to access

  To access the public members outside of an assembly, we need to do the following

       1. Add a reference of the assembly that needs to be used
       2. Include the assembly in the using clause
       3. Create objects and start using the members
  3. Protected : members of a class are accessible to all its derived classes
                 - derived classes can be in the same assembly or in other assemblies
  4. Internal : exactly like a public access specifier, providing access to derived or non-derived classes but of the same assembly

  5. Internal protected or Protected Internal : internal to all the derived and non derived class of the same assembly and
       -protected to all the derived classes irrespective of the assembly

  


               
