ASP.Net : is a web devlopment platform, which provides a programming model, a comprehensive software infrastructure, and various services required to build robust web applications for PC's, mobile devices etc..

Other tools for web development
PHP
CGI
Perl
Ruby on rail
Java  etc..

Introduced in the year 2002 with .net framework 1.1
Web applications will always have to be installed/hosted on the web server
Cross platform support
Client/server architecture
Client is a browser and server is an application running on the IIS Server

IIS
Websphere
Apache
TomCat
Jelly fish


-Web Form/A Web Page has code behind file and designer file
-Code behind file has an extension of .aspx.cs or .aspx.vb
-Designer file has an extensin of .aspx.designer.cs (auto generated code and should not altered)
-A webform is associated with its code file using @page directive
-Asp.net web form extends event driven model of interaction
-HTTP a stateless protocol

-Inline Code : <%       %> refers to the code that is written inside an asp.net web page that has an extension .aspx,  along with HTML source
-Code Behind : refers to the code of an asp.net web page written in a separate class file with an extension .aspx.cs

Page Life Cycle:
S : Start of the Page
I : Initialization (all controls are initialized)
L : Load
V : Validate
E : Event Handling
R : Render (CSS/Styles/UI is applied)

All web forms are instances of ASP.Net web Page class. The page class has the following objects with its properties that form the scope for programming
 1. Application
 2. Session
 3. Cache
 4. Request
 5. Response
 6. Server
 7. User
 8. Trace
 9. Context


Page Life Cycle:

 -Page Request : This is when the page is first requested from the server. The server checks if it is requested for the first time. If yes then it compiles, parses and creates response and sends it to the client. 
If it is not the first time, then it checks the Cache to see if the page exits. if so send the response from the cache

 -Page Start - We get the 2 objects Request and Response 

 -Page Initialization : During this time, all the controls on a web page is initialized viz. labels, textboxes, etc

 - Page Load : Here page is actually loaded in the memory with the default values

 -Validations : Form Validations, for eg, if a list box is supposed to have list of values, a validation can be set for the same

 - PostBack event handlings : This event gets triggered if the same page is being loaded again. 

 - Page Render : This happens just before all the response info. is sent to the user. All the info. is saved(viewstate) and the result is sent to the user as a complete web page

 - Unload : Once the page output is sent to the user, there is no need for the object in the memory. disposing of the page object is effected

Page Events :
Pre-Init
Init
InitComplete
OnPreLoad
Load
LoadComplete
OnPreRender
Render
Unload : Is the last event that gets triggered after the page has been fully rendered and the html is already sent to the client.
This stage, the page object is ready for discarding, because of which we cannot indulge in any page properties. 

Trace : is like a debugger that traces all request and response activities of a page/es. In order to be able to trace we should enable the trace in web.config file as below

<system.web>
<trace enabled="true"/>

</system.web>

On enabling the trace, a file named trace.axd gets created for the application, using which we can track the events

Every Server control i.e asp: <controls> inherently will have a viewstate variable that will enable to manage the state of the page 

State of the Page (The current page with its values or data/info)

Application Life Cycle :

 - Application Start : When a request is made by the user, the request is actually to the web server for the application. During this time the method Application_Start is executed and all global variables are set to their default values

-Object Creation : HttoContext, HttpRequest and HttpResponse objects are created for respective request and response cycle of events

-HttpApplication Creation : This object/s are created by the web server to process each subsequent request sent to the application

-Dispose : This is called before an application instance is destroyed. One can use this method to release manually any unmanaged resources.

-Application End : Final part of the application, where it is finally unloaded from memory.