Operating System : A software that controls the computers hardware and software resources

Role of an OS : a) Processor Management
                b) Memory management 
                c) Device Driver Management 
                d) Security
                e) Input/Output, Interrupts management
                f) File management
               
CPU : Central Processing Unit
          Single-Core Processor
          Dual Core
          Quad Core
          Multi Core

Various types of Languages :

 1. Assembly Lang : Low-level lang, intended to communicate with the hardware directly
    Assembler : is a program that translates commands into machine code. Assembler gathers instructions from the assembly language and translates  each action into a series electrical signals

Components of an assembly lang:
    1. Syntax : forms the basic structure
    2. label : is a word, number, symbol etc which is used as a reference point to locate the instruction
    3. command : an order/instruction to perform
    4. Operand : Components that help in data manipulation
    5. Directive : Instructions to the assembler to change the settings or perform certain actions
    6. Macro : Are statements that work as a short representation of a sequence of instructions
    7. Mnemonics : Represents abbreviation of a description of the action being performed

Example : 
  MOV x, 5  ---  register 5 in x
  MOV y, 6  -- register 6 in y
  ADD x,y,z -- add x with y and store in z

2. Machine Language :
   ASCII  - Every character in the keyboard has a ascii number and it occupies 1 byte

  1 byte = 8 bits ( 1 bit is either '1' or a '0')

00000000  - stop the program
00000001 - turn the bulb on
00000010 - turn bulb off

Major programming Languages :

  a) procedural Lang: A sequence of statements or commands in an order to achieve desired output
    C, C++
    Java
    Pascal
    Basic

 b) Functional Programming Lang : It focuses on the output of a mathematical calculations and evaluations
     Scala
     Erlnag
     Elixir
     Python
     F#
     Haskell

 c) OOP programming Lang : Treats a program as a group of objects composed of data and program elements (attributes and methods)
     C++
     Java
     C#
     Python
     Ruby

d) Scripting Language: To automate repetitive tasks, manage dynamic content, and or support process in larger application
   PHP
   JavaScript
   Perl
   Bash
   Python
   Node.js


e) Logic Programming Lang : Instead of telling a computer what to do, here we express a series of facts and rules to instruct the computer to make decisions
   Prolog
   Absys
   Datalog
   Alma-0

f) Front End lang : is concerned about the user interface and experience of the software in terms of images, Text,colors, navigation etc
    Html
    CSS
    JavaScript
    React Js
    Angular

g) Back End lang: Deals with storage and manipulation of data(server side software). Do not interact directly with the user
   JavaScript
   PHP
   Java
   C#

Application Development Models :

  1. Desktop Applications/Windows
  2. Client Server Applications ( 2 tier, 3 tier, n tier)
  3. Web Model


   


